# React

[Helper functions](React%2084b8a7ad290741da8870942644e7a2cf/Helper%20functions%202b534dd91d3241049e2b5560559c3128.md)

## State

Props - Inmutable (can't be mutated). This prevents flexibility

State - Store data that is gonna change. Your component will react to those changes. 

**Use state 99% of the times when you want to re-render mutate data**

## Hooks

- **useState**

    First element → State name

    Second element → Setter. It triggers a re-render

    const [count , setCount] = useState(0)

- **useEffect**

    Substitute of *componentDidMount*, *componentDidUpdate* or *componentWillUnmound* lifecycle methods

    Run side-effects, not all the logic

    [ ] when you want to run it at the beggining

- **useRef**

    Returns a mutable ref object which persist a value across renders

    .current 

    Acccess DOM nodes (grab input values or set focus) or keeping a mutable variable

- **useContext**

    Read the context and subscribe to its changes

- **useReducer**

    *useState* substitute with a complex state logic

    const [count , countDispatch] = useReducer(reducer, initialState);

- **useMemo**

    Useful to cache the result of an invoked function. Memoization

    Performance optimization, avoiding expensive recalculations

    `React.memo()` takes two arguments.

    - The first one is the function that we want to memorize.
    - The second one is an optional compare function just like `shouldComponentUpdate()` .

## React-router-dom

**react-router-dom** → withRouter

## Redux

**Functions which provide additional props to your component:**

**react-redux** → connect (pass the store state to the component as props

bindActionCreators → Utility which allows us to dispatch the action creator by just calling the function, without dispatch

*Saga interesting fact*

```tsx
function* watchTask() {
    // `someTask` will be cancelled when CANCEL_TASK will be caught by the 
    // Saga
    yield race({
      task: call(someTask),
      cancel: take('CANCEL_TASK')
    })
}
```

## Testing

**Jest →** Test suite

**Enzyme** → Testing utility

**react-testing-library**

```tsx
import { render, fireEvent, getByTestId} from "react-testing-library";
```

*render* — this will help render our component. It renders into a container 
which is appended to document.body
*getByTestId* — this fetches a DOM element by data-testid
*fireEvent*— this is used to “fire” DOM events. It attaches an event handler 
on the document and handles some DOM events via event delegation 
e.g. clicking on a button
*rerender* — this is used to simulate a page reload

## React Common Questions

[https://medium.com/@vigowebs/frequently-asked-react-js-interview-questions-and-answers-36f3dd99f486](https://medium.com/@vigowebs/frequently-asked-react-js-interview-questions-and-answers-36f3dd99f486)