# RxJS

RxJS is a library for composing asynchronous and callback-based code ina. functional, reactive style using Observables

Powerful dealing with the collections of asynchronous events

Do NOT subscribe generally in services and in the app component

> Use in Javascript - const mySubject = new Rx.Subject();

Use error callback instead try-catch

## Core Concepts

**Subject** - State + a list of observers (implement *next*, *error* and *complete* methods)

**Observable**  - A function that sets up observation (manage async code)

**Subscription** - An Observable instance which begins publishing values

**Multicasting** - Subscribe multiple times in a single execution

## Cold vs Hot Observables

**Cold Observables** - It creates and activates producer (source of values) during subscription

**Hot Observables** - Producers are created "outside". it shares a reference to a produces, or starts listening it. **Multicast to all subscribers**

```jsx
const socket = new WebSocket('ws://someurl');
const source = new Observable((observer) => {
  socket.addEventListener('message', (e) => observer.next(e));
});
```

## Operators

### concatMap

Each keystroke or button click effects a search

### combineLatest

Takes two observables and creates a new one (two streams into one)

```tsx
combineLatest(this.states$, this.filter$).pipe(
  map(([states, filterString]) => 
    states.filter(state => state.name.toLowerCase().indexOf(filterString.toLowerCase()) !== -1))
);
```

### distinctUntilChanged()

Only emit when the current value is different than the last

Useful to discard searches if an input has not changed

### debounceTime

Emits a value from the source Observable only after a particular time has passed without another source emission. asyncScheduler for better performance 

Example: How frequently backend searches can occur

### of

Emits a sequence of values

```tsx
//emits values of any type
const source = of({ name: 'Brian' }, [1, 2, 3], function hello() {
  return 'Hello';
});
//output: {name: 'Brian'}, [1,2,3], function hello() { return 'Hello' }
const subscribe = source.subscribe(val => console.log(val));
```

### startWith

Start with an empty filter

```tsx
this.filter$ = this.filter.valueChanges.pipe(startWith(''));
```

### switchMap

Cancel the observables and switch to a new one

Pending results are not longer needed

### retry

Retry to re-subscribe to the observable. Useful with HTTPRequests.

```tsx
return next.handle(req).pipe(
  retry(2),
  catchError((error: HttpErrorResponse) => {
    if (error.status !== 401) {
      // 401 handled in auth.interceptor
      this.toastr.error(error.message);      
    }
    return throwError(error);
  })
);
```

### take(1)

For subscriptions only have to happen **once** during the application startup.

**It automatically unsubscribes after the first execution.**

### takeUntil

Unsubscribes in demand.

## Subjects

**Subject** - Misses out data that's been pushed into the subject (e.g. if it was pushed before the subscription created)

Useful throwing errors, real powering using multicasting

> asObservable - Transform a subject into an observable

**Replay Subject** - Do not miss data that was emitted previously

```tsx
const mySubject = new Rx.ReplaySubject(2); // Two previous values are emitted
```

**Behaviour Subjects** - Similar to replay subjects, but re-emit only the last emitted value, or the default, if it's not value which has been previously emitted

## NgRx Effects

Useful to implement side-effects which should be triggered in response to Observable streams.